Definition: Inheritance is a mechanism where a new class (subclass) can inherit properties and behaviors from an existing class (superclass). This promotes code reuse and establishes an "is-a" relationship, like a "Dog" is an "Animal."

// Superclass
class Animal {
    public void eat() {
        System.out.println("This animal eats food.");
    }
}

// Subclass inheriting from Animal
class Dog extends Animal {
    public void bark() {
        System.out.println("The dog barks.");
    }
}

public class Main {
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        Dog myDog = new Dog();
        myDog.eat(); // Inherited from Animal
        myDog.bark(); // Specific to Dog
    }
}

INTERVIEW QUESTIONS : 
1. What is Inheritance? ðŸ¤”
Answer: Inheritance is an OOP mechanism where one class (subclass or child class) can inherit properties and behaviors from another class (superclass or parent class). It creates an "is-a" relationship, like "a car is a vehicle."

2. What is the main benefit of using Inheritance? ðŸš€
Answer: The primary benefit is code reusability. It allows a subclass to reuse code from a superclass, reducing redundancy and making the code easier to maintain.

3. How do you implement Inheritance in Java? âœï¸
Answer: You use the extends keyword. For example, class Dog extends Animal means the Dog class inherits from the Animal class.

4. What is the difference between extends and implements? Ø§Ù„ÙØ±Ù‚ Ø¨ÙŠÙ†Ù‡Ù…Ø§
Answer:

extends is used for inheritance between classes. It establishes an "is-a" relationship. A class can only extend one other class.

implements is used to make a class adhere to a specific interface. A class can implement multiple interfaces.

5. What is Method Overriding? How is it related to Inheritance? ðŸ”„
Answer: Method overriding is when a subclass provides its own specific implementation of a method that is already defined in its superclass. This is a core concept of polymorphism that relies on inheritance to work. The method signature (name and parameters) must be the same in both classes.

TYPES OF INHERITANCE : 
1. Single Inheritance
This is the most basic form of inheritance. A single subclass inherits from a single superclass. This creates a simple parent-child relationship.

Diagram: A -> B

Example: A Dog class extends an Animal class.

2. Multilevel Inheritance
This involves a chain of inheritance. A subclass inherits from a class, which in turn inherits from another class.

Diagram: A -> B -> C

Example: A Puppy class extends a Dog class, and the Dog class extends an Animal class.

3. Hierarchical Inheritance
In this type, multiple subclasses inherit from a single superclass. This is useful when multiple related classes share common functionality from a single base class.

Diagram: A -> B and A -> C

Example: A Car class and a Bike class both extend a Vehicle class.

4. Multiple Inheritance (Not Supported in Java Classes)
This is a key point to remember for interviews. Java does not support multiple inheritance with classes. This means a class cannot extend more than one superclass. This restriction is in place to avoid the "Diamond Problem", which can cause ambiguity if two superclasses have a method with the same signature.

However, Java can achieve similar functionality using interfaces. A class can implement multiple interfaces, thereby inheriting method signatures from multiple sources.

5. Hybrid Inheritance (Achieved via a mix of Inheritance and Interfaces)
Hybrid inheritance is a combination of two or more of the above types. Since it often involves multiple inheritance, it is not supported directly with classes in Java. You can, however, create a hybrid structure by combining single or multilevel inheritance with the use of interfaces.